=vgopher v0.1

This is written in 2014 for the purposes of gathering information from a large number of VMware ESXi hosts. This was to supplement stats gathered from nagios (which would periodically crash due to the amount of info being processed). This information was then to be used in creation of automation scripts triggered by nagios alerts. Also, this seemed like a good enough reason to start learning how to actually create an application using Ruby. Admittedly, there is a lot of this code I don't even remember writing. I do however, remember being pleased with the results, so despite how it looks to me now, it works.

While needing plenty of refactoring (and documentation), there are some potential useful bits of code in here. 

Written in Ruby, with an api using Sinatra. 

Any questions (ideally ones pertaining to this, but I suppose anything really) can be directed to syncopatedtech@gmail.com 

==overview & usage

Core components of esxi are grouped into "Object Buckets"
		
		Datacenter(vdc), Cluster, Host, Network(vnet), Datastore(vds), VirtualMachine(vm)

In a given bucket, there are the individual objects with assigned attributes. See: /usr/local/etc/vgopher/ohm_objects.rb

Buckets may contain "collections". These are references to other buckets that have related objects within them. For example, cluster01.example.com will contain a collection of hosts. If you want to return a list of hosts within that collection along with sensor info, the query would be; 
		api_host:9494/example_client/cluster/cluster01/hosts/sensors

object bucket; singular | collection; plural

You always start with a client and an object bucket to search in. An object bucket must be followed by an object. If an object is followed by an attribute, the attribute values will be returned. If an obeject is followed by a collection, all objects in the collection are returned unless followed by another object or attribute. The chain stops at an attribute(s).
* an object can be anything, while a collection or an attribute are set variables.

For example; 

		api_host:9494/example_client/vm/ipaddr => will return any virtual machine with 'ipaddr' in the fqdn as opposed to all vms with ipaddress info

		api_host:9494/example_client/vdc/dc01/vms/ipaddr => will return all virtual machines, with ipaddress info, within datacenter01

		api_host:9494/example_client/host/host01/vms => will return all virtual machines on host01

An attribute may not be followed by anything other than an attribute;

		api_host:9494/example_client/vm/vmname01/os/guestdisk/memoryusage => return os, disk and mem usage for a specific vm

		e.g. api_host:9494/example_client/host/host01/sensors/vms/mule => no worky

Available object buckets: 
		api_host/example_client/(vdc|cluster|host|vnet|vds|vm)

